docs/pages/agntcy_acp_sdk.md, before:

# Agntcy ACP SDK

## Introduction

The "Agent Connect Protocol SDK" is an open-source library designed to
facilitate the adoption of the Agent Connect Protocol. It offers tools
for both client and server implementations, enabling seamless integration
and communication between multi-agent systems.

The SDK is current available in:
  * [python](https://pypi.org/project/agntcy-acp/)

## Getting Started



## Building the package

The [agntcy-acp Python package](https://pypi.org/project/agntcy-acp/) is
built on GitHub and published using GitHub actions. The action can be found
in the relevant workflows directory in the repo. The project attempts to keep
the SDK updated on any ACP or relevant specification changes, but delays can
happen.

### Prerequisites

This repo uses the following tools to build (or update) the packages:
  * yq: to parse OpenAPI yaml
  * poetry: to manage Python dependencies
  * make: to store command recipes
  * docker: to run the 
  [openapi-generator-cli](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator-cli) tool
  * git: to checkout the source specifications

### Generating the SDK clients from the OpenAPI ACP specification

There are two make targets to generate the clients:
  * `make generate_acp_client`
  * `make generate_acp_async_client`

Note that the make targets add a SPDX header and update the package 
imports to match the files as they should appear in the `agntcy_acp/acp_vXX`
subpackages. Please check the Makefile for questions on how this is done.

To update the `agntcy_acp` package by copying the relevant files, use: 
`make update_python_subpackage`

### Updating the client package on a new ACP specification release

For a minor release, follow these steps:

  1. Run: `ACP_SPEC_RELEASE=<RELEASE_TAG> make update_python_subpackage` 
  using the relevant "<RELEASE_TAG>"
  2. Check for any irregularities: `git diff`
  3. Run: `make test`

For a major release, follow these steps:

  1. Run: `ACP_SPEC_RELEASE=<RELEASE_TAG> make update_python_subpackage` 
  using the relevant "<RELEASE_TAG>"
  2. Update the version imports if you want to change the default major
  version in:
      * `agntcy_acp/__init__.py`
      * `agntcy_acp/models/__init__.py`
  3. Check for any irregularities: `git diff`
  4. Run: `make test`

### Publishing

Publishing the package uses a GitHub action triggered by 
[creating a release in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository#creating-a-release).

The following steps are required to create a release:
  1. Push a properly formatted tag (vX.Y.Z[aN][.devN]). This tag must
  correspond to the version in the `pyproject.toml` file. Not all [PEP-440](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/)
  tags are supported at this time.
  2. Use the specified tag to create a release

When the release is created, it will trigger the GitHub action that 
adds the built package to the GitHub release and pushed the (tagged) 
package to PyPi.


## Testing

`make test`


## Roadmap

See the [open issues](https://github.com/agntcy/acp-sdk/issues) for a list of proposed features and known issues.

Commit message:

chore: adding client sdk usage examples

docs/pages/agntcy_acp_sdk.md, after:

# Agntcy ACP client SDK

## Introduction

The "Agent Connect Protocol SDK" is an open-source library designed to
facilitate the adoption of the Agent Connect Protocol. It offers tools
for client implementations, enabling seamless integration and communication
between multi-agent systems.

The SDK is current available in:
  * [python](https://pypi.org/project/agntcy-acp/) [![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/agntcy-acp.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/agntcy-acp/)

## Getting Started with the client

To use the package 

### Installation

Install the latest version from PyPi:
```shell
pip install agntcy-acp
```

### Usage

```python
from agntcy_acp import AsyncACPClient

client = AsyncACPClient.fromConfiguration(
    host="localhost://", 
    api_key="", 
    retries=3
)

```

## Building the package

The [agntcy-acp Python package](https://pypi.org/project/agntcy-acp/) is
built on GitHub and published using GitHub actions. The action can be found
in the relevant workflows directory in the repo. The project attempts to keep
the SDK updated on any ACP or relevant specification changes, but delays can
happen.

### Prerequisites

This repo uses the following tools to build (or update) the packages:
  * yq: to parse OpenAPI yaml
  * poetry: to manage Python dependencies
  * make: to store command recipes
  * docker: to run the 
  [openapi-generator-cli](https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator-cli) tool
  * git: to checkout the source specifications

### Generating the SDK clients from the OpenAPI ACP specification

There are two make targets to generate the clients:
  * `make generate_acp_client`
  * `make generate_acp_async_client`

Note that the make targets add a SPDX header and update the package 
imports to match the files as they should appear in the `agntcy_acp/acp_vXX`
subpackages. Please check the Makefile for questions on how this is done.

To update the `agntcy_acp` package by copying the relevant files, use: 
`make update_python_subpackage`

### Updating the client package on a new ACP specification release

For a minor release, follow these steps:

  1. Run: `ACP_SPEC_RELEASE=<RELEASE_TAG> make update_python_subpackage` 
  using the relevant "<RELEASE_TAG>"
  2. Check for any irregularities: `git diff`
  3. Run: `make test`

For a major release, follow these steps:

  1. Run: `ACP_SPEC_RELEASE=<RELEASE_TAG> make update_python_subpackage` 
  using the relevant "<RELEASE_TAG>"
  2. Update the version imports if you want to change the default major
  version in:
      * `agntcy_acp/__init__.py`
      * `agntcy_acp/models/__init__.py`
  3. Check for any irregularities: `git diff`
  4. Run: `make test`

### Publishing

Publishing the package uses a GitHub action triggered by 
[creating a release in GitHub](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/releasing-projects-on-github/managing-releases-in-a-repository#creating-a-release).

The following steps are required to create a release:
  1. Push a properly formatted tag (vX.Y.Z[aN][.devN]). This tag must
  correspond to the version in the `pyproject.toml` file. Not all [PEP-440](https://peps.python.org/pep-0440/)
  tags are supported at this time.
  2. Use the specified tag to create a release

When the release is created, it will trigger the GitHub action that 
adds the built package to the GitHub release and pushed the (tagged) 
package to PyPi.


## Testing

`make test`


## Roadmap

See the [open issues](https://github.com/agntcy/acp-sdk/issues) for a list of proposed features and known issues.
