docs/pages/dir-howto.md, before:

# Getting started

The Agent Directory (dir) allows publication, exchange and discovery of information about AI agents over a distributed peer-to-peer network.
It leverages [OASF](https://github.com/agntcy/oasf) to describe agents and provides a set of APIs and tools to build, store, publish and discover agents across the network by their attributes and constraints.
Directory also leverages [CSIT](https://github.com/agntcy/csit) for continuous system integration and testing across different versions, environments, and features.

## Features

- **Data Models** - Defines a standard schema for data representation and exchange.
- **Dev Kit** - Provides CLI tooling to simplify development workflows and facilitate API interactions.
- **Plugins** - Pluggable components to extend the build process of agent data models for custom use-cases.
- **Announce** - Allows publication of agent data models to the network.
- **Discover** - Listen, search, and retrieve agents across the network by their attributes and constraints.
- **Security** - Relies on well-known security principles to provide data provenance, integrity and ownership.

## Prerequisites

To build the project and work with the code, you will need the following installed in your system

- [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Golang](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.24.0)

Make sure Docker is installed with Buildx.

## Development

Use `Taskfile` for all related development operations such as testing, validating, deploying, and working with the project.

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/agntcy/dir
cd dir
```

### Initialize the project

This step will fetch all project dependencies and prepare the environment for development.

```bash
task deps
```

### Make changes

Make the changes to the source code and rebuild for later testing.

```bash
task build
```

### Test changes

The local testing pipeline relies on Golang to perform unit tests, and
Docker to perform E2E tests in an isolated Kubernetes environment using Kind.

```bash
task test:unit
task test:e2e
```

## Artifacts distribution

All artifacts are tagged using the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) and follow the checked out source code tags.
It is not advised to use artifacts with mismatching versions.

### Container images

All container images are distributed via [GitHub Packages](https://github.com/orgs/agntcy/packages?repo_name=dir).

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/agntcy/dir-ctl:v0.2.0
docker pull ghcr.io/agntcy/dir-apiserver:v0.2.0
```

### Helm charts

All helm charts are distributed as OCI artifacts via [GitHub Packages](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/pkgs/container/dir%2Fhelm-charts%2Fdir).

```bash
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
```

### Binaries

All release binaries are distributed via [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/releases).

### SDKs

- **Golang** - [github.com/agntcy/dir/api](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/api), [github.com/agntcy/dir/cli](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/cli), [github.com/agntcy/dir/server](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/server)

## Deployment

Directory API services can be deployed either using the `Taskfile` or directly via released Helm chart.

### Using Taskfile

This will start the necessary components such as storage and API services.

```bash
task server:start
```

### Using Helm chart

This will deploy Directory services into an existing Kubernetes cluster.

```bash
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
helm upgrade --install dir oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
```

## Usage

This document defines a basic overview of main Directory features, components, and usage scenarios.

> Although the following example is shown for CLI-based usage scenario,
there is an effort on exposing the same functionality via SDKs.

### Requirements

- Directory CLI client, distributed via [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/releases)
- Directory API server, outlined in the [Deployment](#deployment) section.

### Build

This example demonstrates the examples of a data model and how to build such models using provided tooling to prepare for publication.

Generate an example agent that matches the data model schema defined in [Agent Data Model](api/core/v1alpha1/agent.proto) specification.

```bash
cat << EOF > model.json
{
  "name": "my-agent",
  "skills": [
    {"category_name": "Text Generation"},
    {"category_name": "Fact Extraction"}
  ]
}
EOF
```

Alternatively, build the same agent data model using the CLI client.
The build process allows additional operations to be performed,
which is useful for agent model enrichment and other custom use-cases.

```bash
# Define the build config
cat << EOF > build.config.yml
builder:
  # Base agent model path
  base-model: "model.json"

  # Disable the LLMAnalyzer plugin
  llmanalyzer: false

  # Disable the runtime plugin
  runtime: false
EOF

# Build the agent
dirctl build . > built.model.json

# Override above example
mv built.model.json model.json
```

### Store

This example demonstrates the interaction with the local storage layer.
It is used as an content-addressable object store for Directory-specific models and serves both the local and network-based operations (if enabled).

```bash
# push and store content digest
dirctl push model.json > model.digest
DIGEST=$(cat model.digest)

# pull
dirctl pull $DIGEST

# lookup
dirctl info $DIGEST
```

### Announce

This examples demonstrates how to publish the data to allow content discovery.
To avoid stale data, it is recommended to republish the data periodically
as the data across the network has TTL.

Note that this operation only works for the objects already pushed to local storage layer, ie.
you must first push the data before being able to perform publication.

```bash
# Publish the data to your local data store.
dirctl publish $DIGEST

# Publish the data across the network.
dirctl publish $DIGEST --network
```

If the data is not published to the network, it cannot be discovered by other peers.
For published data, peers may try to reach out over network
and request specific objects for verification and replication.
Network publication may fail if you are not connected to any peers.

### Discover

This examples demonstrates how to discover published data locally or across the network.
This API supports both unicast- mode for routing to specific objects,
and multicast mode for attribute-based matching and routing.

There are two modes of operation, a) local mode where the data is queried from the local data store, and b) network mode where the data is queried across the network.

Discovery is performed using full-set label matching, ie. the results always fully match the requested query.
Note that it is not guaranteed that the data is available, valid, or up to date as results.

```bash
# Get a list of peers holding a specific agent data model
dirctl list --digest $DIGEST

# Discover the agent data models in your local data store that can fully satisfy your search query.
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation"
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" "/skills/Fact Extraction"

# Discover the agent data models across the network that can fully satisfy your search query.
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" --network
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" "/skills/Fact Extraction" --network
```

It is also possible to get an aggregated summary about the data held in your local data store or across the network.
This is used for routing decisions when traversing the network.
Note that for network search, you will not query your own data, but only the data of other peers.

```bash
# Get a list of labels and basic summary details about the data you currently have in your local data store.
dirctl list info

# Get a list of labels and basic summary details about the data you across the reachable network.
dirctl list info --network
```

Commit message:

docs(hub): add agent hub guides (#80)
* feat: agent hub docs

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* chore: updates

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* chore: login update

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* chore: further updates and cli

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* chore: clearing up user invites

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* chore: fix python dep check

Signed-off-by: Luca Muscariello <lumuscar@cisco.com>
Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* fix: landing page reference

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* fix: further changes

Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* fix: resolve dir-hub docs

Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

* fix: resolve dir-hub docs

Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Tagscherer Ádám <adam.tagscherer@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>
Signed-off-by: Luca Muscariello <lumuscar@cisco.com>
Co-authored-by: Luca Muscariello <lumuscar@cisco.com>
Co-authored-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>

docs/pages/dir-howto.md, after:

# Getting started

The Agent Directory (dir) allows publication, exchange and discovery of information about AI agents over a distributed peer-to-peer network.
It leverages [OASF](https://github.com/agntcy/oasf) to describe agents and provides a set of APIs and tools to build, store, publish and discover agents across the network by their attributes and constraints.
Directory also leverages [CSIT](https://github.com/agntcy/csit) for continuous system integration and testing across different versions, environments, and features.

## Features

- **Data Models** - Defines a standard schema for data representation and exchange.
- **Dev Kit** - Provides CLI tooling to simplify development workflows and facilitate API interactions.
- **Plugins** - Pluggable components to extend the build process of agent data models for custom use-cases.
- **Announce** - Allows publication of agent data models to the network.
- **Discover** - Listen, search, and retrieve agents across the network by their attributes and constraints.
- **Security** - Relies on well-known security principles to provide data provenance, integrity and ownership.

## Prerequisites

To build the project and work with the code, you will need the following installed in your system

- [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- [Golang](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.24.0)

Make sure Docker is installed with Buildx.

## Development

Use `Taskfile` for all related development operations such as testing, validating, deploying, and working with the project.

### Clone the repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/agntcy/dir
cd dir
```

### Initialize the project

This step will fetch all project dependencies and prepare the environment for development.

```bash
task deps
```

### Make changes

Make the changes to the source code and rebuild for later testing.

```bash
task build
```

### Test changes

The local testing pipeline relies on Golang to perform unit tests, and
Docker to perform E2E tests in an isolated Kubernetes environment using Kind.

```bash
task test:unit
task test:e2e
```

## Artifacts distribution

All artifacts are tagged using the [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) and follow the checked out source code tags.
It is not advised to use artifacts with mismatching versions.

### Container images

All container images are distributed via [GitHub Packages](https://github.com/orgs/agntcy/packages?repo_name=dir).

```bash
docker pull ghcr.io/agntcy/dir-ctl:v0.2.0
docker pull ghcr.io/agntcy/dir-apiserver:v0.2.0
```

### Helm charts

All helm charts are distributed as OCI artifacts via [GitHub Packages](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/pkgs/container/dir%2Fhelm-charts%2Fdir).

```bash
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
```

### Binaries

All release binaries are distributed via [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/releases).

### SDKs

- **Golang** - [github.com/agntcy/dir/api](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/api), [github.com/agntcy/dir/cli](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/cli), [github.com/agntcy/dir/server](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/agntcy/dir/server)

## Deployment

Directory API services can be deployed either using the `Taskfile` or directly via released Helm chart.

### Using Taskfile

This will start the necessary components such as storage and API services.

```bash
task server:start
```

### Using Helm chart

This will deploy Directory services into an existing Kubernetes cluster.

```bash
helm pull oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
helm upgrade --install dir oci://ghcr.io/agntcy/dir/helm-charts/dir --version v0.2.0
```

## Usage

This document defines a basic overview of main Directory features, components, and usage scenarios.

> Although the following example is shown for CLI-based usage scenario,
there is an effort on exposing the same functionality via SDKs.

### Requirements

- Directory CLI client, distributed via [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/agntcy/dir/releases)
- Directory API server, outlined in the [Deployment](#deployment) section.

### Build

This example demonstrates the examples of a data model and how to build such models using provided tooling to prepare for publication.

Generate an example agent that matches the data model schema defined in [Agent Data Model](api/core/v1alpha1/agent.proto) specification.

```bash
cat << EOF > model.json
{
  "name": "my-agent",
  "skills": [
    {"category_name": "Text Generation"},
    {"category_name": "Fact Extraction"}
  ]
}
EOF
```

Alternatively, build the same agent data model using the CLI client.
The build process allows additional operations to be performed,
which is useful for agent model enrichment and other custom use-cases.

```bash
# Define the build config
cat << EOF > build.config.yml
builder:
  # Base agent model path
  base-model: "model.json"

  # Disable the LLMAnalyzer plugin
  llmanalyzer: false

  # Disable the runtime plugin
  runtime: false
EOF

# Build the agent
dirctl build . > built.model.json

# Override above example
mv built.model.json model.json
```

### Signing and Verification

This process relies on attaching signature to the agent data model using identity-based OIDC signing flow which can be verified by other clients.
The signing process opens a browser window to authenticate the user
with an OIDC identity provider.
The verification process validates the agent signature against the identity provider and signature transparency services.
These operations are implemented using [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/).

```bash
## Sign the agent data model
cat model.json | dirctl sign --stdin > signed.model.json

## Verify agent data models
cat model.json | dirctl verify --stdin
cat signed.model.json | dirctl verify --stdin

## Verify signature using custom parameters:
# 1. Only trust users with "cisco.com" addresses
# 2. Only trust issuers from "github.com"
dirctl verify signed.model.json \
   --oidc-identity "(.*)@cisco.com" \
   --oidc-issuer "(.*)github.com(.*)"

## Replace the base agent model with a signed one
rm -rf model.json
mv signed.model.json model.json
```

### Store

This example demonstrates the interaction with the local storage layer.
It is used as an content-addressable object store for directory-specific models and serves both the local and network-based operations (if enabled).

```bash
# push and store content digest
dirctl push model.json > model.digest
DIGEST=$(cat model.digest)

# pull
dirctl pull $DIGEST

# lookup
dirctl info $DIGEST
```

### Announce

This examples demonstrates how to publish the data to allow content discovery.
To avoid stale data, it is recommended to republish the data periodically
as the data across the network has TTL.

Note that this operation only works for the objects already pushed to local storage layer, ie.
you must first push the data before being able to perform publication.

```bash
# Publish the data to your local data store.
dirctl publish $DIGEST

# Publish the data across the network.
dirctl publish $DIGEST --network
```

If the data is not published to the network, it cannot be discovered by other peers.
For published data, peers may try to reach out over network
and request specific objects for verification and replication.
Network publication may fail if you are not connected to any peers.

### Discover

This examples demonstrates how to discover published data locally or across the network.
This API supports both unicast- mode for routing to specific objects,
and multicast mode for attribute-based matching and routing.

There are two modes of operation, a) local mode where the data is queried from the local data store, and b) network mode where the data is queried across the network.

Discovery is performed using full-set label matching, ie. the results always fully match the requested query.
Note that it is not guaranteed that the data is available, valid, or up to date as results.

```bash
# Get a list of peers holding a specific agent data model
dirctl list --digest $DIGEST

# Discover the agent data models in your local data store that can fully satisfy your search query.
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation"
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" "/skills/Fact Extraction"

# Discover the agent data models across the network that can fully satisfy your search query.
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" --network
dirctl list "/skills/Text Generation" "/skills/Fact Extraction" --network
```

It is also possible to get an aggregated summary about the data held in your local data store or across the network.
This is used for routing decisions when traversing the network.
Note that for network search, you will not query your own data, but only the data of other peers.

```bash
# Get a list of labels and basic summary details about the data you currently have in your local data store.
dirctl list info

# Get a list of labels and basic summary details about the data you across the reachable network.
dirctl list info --network
```
