README.md, before:

# Documentation Repository Internet of Agent

This repository contains the documentation for the project, built using Sphinx
with the Read the Docs template. The documentation sources are written in
Markdown.

## Table of Contents

- [Documentation Repository Internet of Agent](#documentation-repository-internet-of-agent)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [macOS](#macos)
    - [Linux](#linux)
    - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Building the Documentation](#building-the-documentation)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Copyright Notice](#copyright-notice)

## Installation

To build the documentation locally, you need to install required dependencies.

**Prerequisites**

- [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev/)
- [Python](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Golang](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.24.0)

### macOS

- Install Taskfile using Homebrew:

   ```sh
   brew install go-task/tap/go-task

### Linux

- Install Taskfile using bash:

   ```sh
   sh -c '$(curl -fsSL https://taskfile.dev/install.sh)'

### Windows

- Install Taskfile using scoop:

   ```sh
   scoop install go-task

## Building the Documentation

- To build the documentation, run the following command:

   ```sh
   task build

- This will generate the HTML documentation in the .build/docs/html directory.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps to contribute:

Fork the repository. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix. Make your
changes. Submit a pull request.

# Copyright Notice

[Copyright Notice and License](./LICENSE.md)

Copyright AGNTCY Contributors (https://github.com/agentcy)

Commit message:

fix rebase (#112)
* fix: resolve documentation data
* fix: update docs build path
* chore: cleanup taskfile
* chore: update build
* chore: update merge

---------

Signed-off-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>
Signed-off-by: Luca Muscariello <muscariello@ieee.org>
Co-authored-by: Ramiz Polic <rpolic@cisco.com>
Co-authored-by: Mauro Sardara <msardara@cisco.com>
Co-authored-by: Aron Kerekes <arkereke@cisco.com>

README.md, after:

# Documentation Repository Internet of Agent

This repository contains the documentation for the project, built using Sphinx
with the Read the Docs template. The documentation sources are written in
Markdown.

## Table of Contents

- [Documentation Repository Internet of Agent](#documentation-repository-internet-of-agent)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Installation](#installation)
    - [macOS](#macos)
    - [Linux](#linux)
    - [Windows](#windows)
  - [Running local live server](#running-local-live-server)
  - [Building the Documentation](#building-the-documentation)
  - [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Copyright Notice](#copyright-notice)

## Installation

To build the documentation locally, you need to install required dependencies.

**Prerequisites**

- [Taskfile](https://taskfile.dev/)
- [Uv](https://docs.astral.sh/uv/getting-started/installation/)
- [Golang](https://go.dev/doc/devel/release#go1.24.0)

### macOS

- Install Taskfile and uv using Homebrew:

   ```sh
   brew install go-task/tap/go-task
   brew install uv
   ```

### Linux

- Install Taskfile and uv using bash:

   ```sh
   sh -c '$(curl -fsSL https://taskfile.dev/install.sh)'
   curl -LsSf https://astral.sh/uv/install.sh | sh
   ```

### Windows

- Install Taskfile and uv using scoop:

   ```sh
   scoop install go-task
   scoop install main/uv
   ```

## Running local live server

   ```sh
   task run
   ```

## Building the Documentation

To build the documentation, run the following command:

   ```sh
   task build
   ```

This will generate the HTML documentation in the *.build/site* directory.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please follow these steps to contribute:

Fork the repository. Create a new branch for your feature or bugfix. Make your
changes. Submit a pull request.

# Copyright Notice

[Copyright Notice and License](./LICENSE.md)

Copyright AGNTCY Contributors (https://github.com/agentcy)
